Anopheles stephensi mosquitoes have been found in Laisamis and Saku sub-counties of northern Kenya, posing a serious concern to public health in the neighbouring country and East Africa Community (EAC) member states, including Tanzania. A malaria parasite-transmitting mosquito originates from South Asia and the Middle East, and it spreads two different malaria parasites that highly cause the disease and subsequently, death. Contrary to the usual pattern for the season, reports from hospitals in Kenya’s malaria-infected regions indicate that there is an increase in the number of malaria patients. "Malaria is a major public health concern in Kenya. The disease has spread to different parts of the country, with about 70% of the population remaining at risk," reads a statement from the Kenya Medical Research Institute. However, Tanzanian health institutions told The Citizen that they are closely following the mosquito and that special research aimed at addressing the public health concern has been launched. The National Institute for Medical Research Tanzania lead researcher, Dr William Kisinza, said the government is aware of the mosquito that has been recently discovered in Kenya. However, he said they are yet to establish whether the parasite has crossed borders to Tanzania or not, noting that they have already started making follow-up. "Tanzania is not an island, and the mosquito has a high probability of entering the country. Because of its peculiar traits, the parasite may have entered the country without our knowledge," said the Expert from the Amani Centre in Muheza District, Tanga Region. He said the mosquito has a high breeding and transmission capability as compared to other mosquitoes. Furthermore, he cautioned that a person who has contracted malaria and gets treated could suddenly fall sick even without being bitten by the mosquito because parasites could remain in the patient’s liver for some time. "The mosquito is resistant to anti-malaria sprays, therefore increasing anxiety in the world. It’s emergence is a setback to the antimalarial control achievements that have been recorded globally so far," he said.  --TheCitizen--