In a statement, Amnesty said the blockade clearly violated rights to freedom of expression and access to information and “further stains the country’s already dismal record on media freedom.” “Amnesty International urges the Ethiopian authorities to lift this blockade without delay and to end this culture of interfering with people’s right to express themselves and to seek and receive information,” said Deputy Regional Director for East and Southern Africa Flavia Mwangovya in a statement. Internet censorship watchdogs including the Open Observatory of Network Interference and Access Now have also noted a blockade on social media networks since February 9. Amnesty said the blockage followed calls for street protests by leaders of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church after a group of rebel archbishops created a dissident synod. The Tewadeho Church, representing 40% of Ethiopia’s 120 million people, accused Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed of offering a form of recognition to the breakaway bishops, and interfering in its religious affairs. The demonstrations were eventually cancelled after a meeting between church leaders and Abiy. Ethiopian authorities have cut or throttled access to the internet and social media platforms many times in recent years. Between 2015 and 2017, connectivity was interrupted on a number of occasions by the previous government as it faced the largest street protest movement in 25 years. Under Abiy, this has continued. The northern region of Tigray, the scene of an armed conflict with the federal government, was largely deprived of telecommunications for the two-year duration of the war. Networks have been partially restored since a peace agreement was signed in November. --AFP-- Ethiopia is violating their citizens freedom of speech rights with the social media ban! They also house the African Union HQ! This can not be accepted!! The state has kept up its policy of incarcerating highly influential figures from the #EOTC & has gone almost 4 days without lifting the ban on major social media platforms.How much longer will this fascist regime continue to silence & oppress the voices of the people?#Ethiopia The Orthodox Church vowed in its statement that Sunday's protest would go ahead. It said the government's ban constituted "a declaration to destroy the church once and for all". Access to social media platforms has been restricted in Ethiopia, Internet watchdog NetBlocks said. Ethiopia should ban facebook, instagram,telegram and centralize all media +own social media platforms. https://t.co/DGljqc5K9Y African countries need to ban @Twitter, @Meta, @YouTube etc and create their own platform. And the future of social media should be built atop decentralized technologies. #Ethiopia #NoMore The state has kept up its policy of incarcerating highly influential figures from the #EOTC & has gone almost 4 days without lifting the ban on major social media platforms.How much longer will this fascist regime continue to silence & oppress the voices of the people?#Ethiopia The Orthodox Church vowed in its statement that Sunday's protest would go ahead. It said the government's ban constituted "a declaration to destroy the church once and for all". Access to social media platforms has been restricted in Ethiopia, Internet watchdog NetBlocks said. Ethiopia should ban facebook, instagram,telegram and centralize all media +own social media platforms. https://t.co/DGljqc5K9Y African countries need to ban @Twitter, @Meta, @YouTube etc and create their own platform. And the future of social media should be built atop decentralized technologies. #Ethiopia #NoMore