Fast bowler Archer, 27, is set to play for England for the first time in almost two years on Friday (11:00 GMT). The three-match series begins a 2023 in which England will look to defend the 50-over World Cup and regain the Ashes. The opener is in Bloemfontein, as is Sunday's second game, before a finale in Kimberley on Wednesday. The series is rescheduled from 2020, when England left SA after a number of positive coronavirus tests. In order for it to be played, the inaugural season of the SA T20 league has taken an eight-day break and will recommence on February 2) This tour and England's limited-overs trip to Bangladesh in March, also rescheduled from 2021, come either side of a two-Test series in New Zealand in February, and only a handful of players are involved in both red and white-ball squads. England, world champions in both limited-overs formats, will defend the 50-over title they won in 2019 in India in October and November. Archer will get 'better and better' Elbow and back injuries have prevented Archer from playing for England since a T20 series in India at the beginning of 2021. He made his return to competitive cricket earlier this month in the South African T20 league, taking eight wickets in five matches for MI Cape Town. The Sussex man bowled the super over in the final that helped England win the World Cup in 2019 and he would likely to be the leader of the attack in India later this year if he can stay fit. He has expressed his desire to play in the Ashes, but his short-term future lies in limited-overs cricket, both for England and at the Indian Premier League. "It's great to have Jofra back, fit and playing cricket again," said England captain Jos Buttler. "I think I speak on behalf of everyone - he's such an exciting guy to have back on the field. "As an England captain, to have him in the team is brilliant. I'm sure he'll get better and better as he comes back. "There's no expectation from my side on Jofra. He will come back and perform brilliantly because that is what he is able to do. "He's coming back after a long time. The intensity in international cricket is different and he has had some significant injuries. It would be naïve to think it wouldn't take him a little bit of time to get up to 100%. It's just fantastic to see him fit and back playing again." --BBC--