The revelation comes following the release this Tuesday of the global anti-corruption movement Transparency International’s 2022 Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI). Labelling the findings ‘a discouraging story’, the CPI relates that SA slipped one point in the rankings of the leading global index measuring perceptions of public sector corruption around the world. The country has barely shifted position on the CPI over the 11 years that Corruption Watch, Transparency International’s local chapter has been tracking its progress, and is now ranked at 43, where it started in 2012. SA shares this position with Benin, Bulgaria, Ghana, and Senegal on the global index. The international organisation ranks 180 countries worldwide by their perceived levels of public sector corruption, scoring on a scale of 0 (highly corrupt) to 100 (very clean. The average score across all countries is 43, with two-thirds of all surveyed countries scoring 50. “It is important to note, however, that the CPI measures perceptions of corruption, and not actual corruption that is experienced in countries across the world. “In this regard, perceptions may differ from the current reality in SA, where there has been some forward momentum by law enforcement agencies in curbing and combating corruption. “The fact that SA has slipped a point at a time when there appears to be some momentum in bringing the corrupt to book, following the findings of the Zondo Commission reports, is particularly galling,” Karam Singh, Executive Director of Corruption Watch said. The 2022 report paints a disturbing picture of an increasingly dangerous world, highlighting the link between corruption and conflict globally, and the threat that corruption poses to peace and security. The recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic, the climate crisis, and growing security threats can be said to be at the root of a new wave of uncertainty and greater instability in the world in general. “The annual CPI represents an opportunity for countries to redeem themselves by demonstrating a tangible shift in addressing their corruption problems. “However, we are assailed each year by the failure of governments, our own included, to be seen to be advancing anti-corruption efforts,” said Singh said. “It is hardly comforting that we have leaders paying lip service to the anti-corruption agenda in an environment that is not just hostile but extremely dangerous for whistle blowers and those activists seeking to address the huge inequality and injustices wrought by corruption.” Whistle-blowers and activists in SA and the Southern African region, as has been seen too often recently, face real threats to their physical safety and even their lives, Singh added. --ChannelAfrica\Linda Moreotsene Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) is the lowest performing region on the CPI with an average score of 32. This reveals a vicious cycle of corruption, violence, and instability, with 44 of the 49 countries assessed in the region scoring below 50 >> https://t.co/tPjUiJwEps. #CPI2022 pic.twitter.com/vjtVTo9XrY It’s only in South Africa where a ruling party camouflages corruption within its ranks with such lofty words as RENEWAL & REBUILD, instead of charging the culprits. Zondo has fingered the ANC - when is it paying back the govt stolen monies. pic.twitter.com/5jugnUCj25 South Africa is in a death spiral. As the corruption destroys the last vestiges of a civil society, the power crisis is creating a water and food crisis. God help us when 60 million mouths need feeding. pic.twitter.com/AK2cuJQVPF If South Africa, Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Eswatini were run well, we’d have the most thriving of economies& quality of life!Instead we have escalating poverty, crime, bribery, corruption, political instability, education, health & infrastructure crises! All down to the government! @INTERPOL_HQ my name is Patricia Mashale. I'm a whistlesblower from South Africa,who has been in hiding since February last year after I blew the whistle on massive corruption in the South African Police Service. This corruption includes illegal smuggling of firearms And so @MYANC stole R38b from #hitachi a company apparently owned by @Eskom_SA / @MYANC @CyrilRamaphosa @PresidencyZA this is just another instance of corruption in South Africa under the ANC government. @dailymaverick @eNCA @News24 @Newzroom405 and to the party