Fourth seed Djokovic, seeking a record-extending 10th Australian Open title, has been in dominant form in his return to the country, a year after being deported on the eve of last year's tournament for not being vaccinated against COVID-19. The biggest threat to his campaign so far has been a hamstring injury, which he suffered en route to winning the warm-up title in Adelaide. Djokovic was at his devastating best in statement wins over Alex de Minaur in the fourth round and Andrey Rublev in the quarter-finals and he said those remaining in the men's draw should take notice. "Playing against two guys that are really good, in-form players, to beat them dominantly in three sets is something that I want in this moment, something that sends a message to all my opponents remaining in the draw," Djokovic said. Having equalled Andre Agassi's 26-match Australian Open win streak to reach his 44th Grand Slam semi-final and sit two behind 20-times major champion Roger Federer in the all-time list, the 35-year-old Djokovic said he was still improving. "I feel good on court, better and better as the tournament progresses," Djokovic said. "I've been in this situation so many times in my life, in my career, I've never lost a semi-final at the Australian Open. Hopefully that will stay the same." Hoping to flip the script is Paul, who outclassed fellow unseeded American Ben Shelton to become only the third active US male player to have made the last four of a Grand Slam alongside John Isner and Frances Tiafoe. Paul's progress is testament to the steady rise of American men's tennis, with 10 players set to be in the ATP top 50 on Monday following a superb run at Melbourne Park, where the likes of holder Rafa Nadal, Daniil Medvedev, and Casper Ruud went out early. But the 25-year-old hopes to go further. "It's important to me," said Paul, the first American man to reach the Australian Open semifinals since Andy Roddick in 2009. "We all want it pretty badly for ourselves, but we want it for United States tennis, too."  --Reuters--