Hichilema made the remarks during a visit to Zambia by International Monetary Fund (IMF) Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva, who met Hichilema, Finance Minister Situmbeko Musokotwane, central bank Governor Denny Kalyalya and other senior government officials. Zambia defaulted on its sovereign debt in 2020, becoming the first African country to do so during the COVID-19 pandemic. In August last year, it won IMF approval for a $1.3 billion, three-year loan programme intended to help ease pressure on its public finances while it conducts $13 billion restructuring discussions. "If (the debt restructuring is) not concluded soon, it is going to distort all the good efforts that we have been making to reconstruct the economy and bring investment," Hichilema told Georgieva, in remarks with reporters present. He added that if the restructuring was concluded by a government target of the end of the first quarter of this year it could "help a lot to open up areas that are sometimes causing negative sentiment". Georgieva commended the government for moving away from wasteful expenditure to use funds more prudently. She said the IMF would like to work with Zambia to boost its economic growth. Georgieva, who has pushed hard for quicker movement on debt relief, has said she hopes Zambia will become the second nation after Chad to complete a debt treatment process under the Group of 20 major economies' Common Framework. Meanwhile, United States Treasury Secretary, Janet Yellen, said this Monday during a visit to Zambia that it was critically important to restructure Zambia's debt, and she believed progress could be made after her frank talks with key creditor China last week. Yellen added that Zambia's debt overhang was a drag on its whole economy and that China had been a barrier to reaching a resolution on the southern African country's debt problem. However, she said she was encouraged that progress could become possible shortly following her meeting with Chinese officials in Zurich last week. "I specifically raised the issue with Zambia (with Chinese officials) and asked for their cooperation in trying to reach a speedy resolution. And our talks were constructive," Yellen said. She said it was also critically important for Zambia to address corruption and human rights and create a business environment that would promote investments and trade. She said it was very important that President Hakainde Hichilema, who took charge in August 2021, had made addressing corruption an important part of his agenda and had logged some progress. Yellen is on a three-country visit to Africa. In Senegal she said Russia's war in Ukraine was hitting Africans particularly hard by exacerbating food insecurity and putting an unnecessary drag on the continent's economy.  --Reuters--