The announcement of the closure, which was made two weeks ago, did not come as a surprise, going by the trend of recent exits by South African retail brands such as Shoprite, Massmart, and their Botswana-based counterpart, Choppies. The latest exit by Builders Warehouse, however, has left policymakers, investment analysts, and the investing fraternity pondering the future of investments by South African firms in Kenya and the entire East African region. The Kenya Private Sector Alliance (Kepsa), an umbrella body for private businesses in the country, acknowledges that the exit of South African firms from the country is an issue of concern and efforts are being put together to establish the specific issues impacting South African firms in the country. "Not sure why South African investments have found it hard to invest in Kenya unlike others. We are trying to find out their unique issues as we deal with other business environment issues affecting business as we always do," says Carol Kariuki, the Kepsa Chief Executive. Certainly, South African retail firms have found it difficult to crack the regional market and have been busy scaling down and completely exiting the East African market. Analysts reckon that South African retailers have failed to localise and connect with the local consumers contrary to other South African firms which have opted for mergers and acquisition to conquer the local market. "While many South African companies understand the promising macroeconomic landscape of Kenya, they don’t spend enough time appreciating the equally important microeconomic elements of consumer behaviour, price sensitivity, all of which are aspects of behavioural economics. In the end they fail to connect with the customer," says Ken Gichinga, chief economist at Mentoria Consulting, "It really comes down to the ability to localise and connect with the consumer. There is a great need for corporates to now pay attention to consumer and household behaviour through what we call behavioural economics."  --TheEastAfrican-- Join us on Monday, February 13, as we celebrate the 2023 World Radio Day under the theme: Radio and Peace. Stream our live webinar from 10h00 (CAT) from our social media platforms. Link below: