The study involved 61 organisations and about 2 900 workers who voluntarily adopted truncated work weeks from June to December 2022. Only three organisations decided to the pause the experiment, and two are still considering shorter hours, data released Tuesday showed. The rest were convinced by revenue gains, drops in turnover and lower levels of worker burnout that four is the new five when it comes to work days. That thousands of employees adopted shorter schedules is notable given that the research occurred during trying economic circumstances that squeezed many British companies, including rapid inflation, political instability and fallout from Brexit. At times, launching a work-hour reduction program in the midst of an economic downturn seemed questionable. “I was wondering if it might be a lot harder for companies to make four-day weeks work, and the answer seems to be no,” says Lead Researcher Juliet Schor, an economist and sociologist at Boston College. Her research has long found that five-day work weeks no longer fits the lifestyles and commitments of modern employees, particularly caretakers. “The organisations did a great job, and they’re really happy with it.” The UK data strongly confirms the findings of smaller trials whose results were released in December, of companies based in the United States, Ireland and Australia. That research showed equivalent gains in revenue and employee productivity, as well as drops in absenteeism and turnover. Those pilots were smaller, covering roughly half the number of companies in the UK trial, and a third of the employees. “We basically got very similar results,” says Schor. “The differences were marginal, really nothing worth talking about.” The UK results are the second major data release in an ongoing series of four-day tests co-ordinated by 4-Day Week Global, a New Zealand-based non-profit advocacy group. With each iteration, the researchers adjust their data collection, as well as begin tracking the long-term effects of lighter schedules. Though the studies are well-designed and include organisations across a swath of industries, weak points include that the participating organisations skew smaller and that the trials are not randomised: the participating organisations all opt in and invest substantial efforts in trainings and planning, meaning that leaders are biased toward championing shorter work schedules. Employees who got a taste of the shorter workweek in the trial liked what they found. With the new schedule, workers reported improvements in everything from stress, fatigue and health to their personal life. The time men spent looking after children increased by more than double that of women during the trial. None of the 2 900 participants said they want to ditch the four-day arrangement, and 15% even said that no amount of extra money could make them return to five days. Most companies adopted four-day schedules, although a small percentage opted for shorter five-day arrangements or, in the case of seasonal businesses like restaurants, an annualized four-day week model in which longer opening times in summer would compensate for shorter days in winter. However, recent evidence showed plenty in the UK actually want to work more hours. Many see that as a lifeline to boost their earnings in the cost-of-living crisis, according to the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development, a body for HR professionals. --Bloomberg--