South Africa’s (SA) government and State-owned companies will find it harder to borrow money, while banking and asset-management fees may increase if the country is added to a global watchdog’s list of nations with shortcomings in tackling illicit financial flows. The Financial Action Task Force, which polices compliance with anti-money laundering and terror-financing measures, will decide whether to include SA on its so-called “grey list” during meetings scheduled for February 20-24. This is after an evaluation carried out in 2019, following an era of endemic graft, found Africa’s most industrialised economy lacking in all 11 of its effectiveness measures to combat dirty-money flows. It will also weigh on the reputation of a nation which has a flagging economy, a 32.9% jobless rate and a full-house of junk credit ratings. Governance and policy failures have also forced President Cyril Ramaphosa to declare a state of disaster over electricity-supply constraints. The immediate impact of greylisting is likely to be muted because SA’s myriad problems mean international banks already place the country in a higher risk category and as markets have already priced in the move, according to Peter Attard Montalto, Head of Capital Markets Research at Intellidex. A 2022 report by the research firm showed a “high probability” of the country being added to the list. While greylisting may increase the government’s foreign-funding costs and weigh on trade flows, it’s unlikely to “significantly” affect SA’s creditworthiness, said S&P Global Ratings Analysts Samira Mensah, Zahabia Gupta and Omega Collocott. State firms like power utility Eskom and ports and rail operator Transnet may face more severe consequences. “Key State-owned enterprises have already been undermined by misappropriation of public funds and mismanagement, and a greylisting could raise investor concerns that concerted efforts to improve governance and oversight may prove ineffective against rooting out corrupt practices within the largest State-owned enterprises,” S&P’s analysts said. SA’s domestic markets aren’t big enough to meet the funding needs of its largest public companies, they said. Upon greylisting, SA holders of offshore accounts will automatically be considered higher risk clients by financial firms with operations outside the country, triggering more onerous due diligence processes and increased costs that may be passed on to clients. --Moneyweb--