This  follows the Reuters reports on an illegal abortion program and the targeted killing of children carried out by the Nigerian military.

Democrat Sara Jacobs of California and Republican Chris Smith of New Jersey, both members of the subcommittee on Africa, also called for a review of security assistance and co-operation programs in Nigeria, including a risk assessment of civilian casualties and abuses resulting from the arms assistance. "We write to express our concern with current US policy on and military support to Nigeria," the lawmakers said. The US has paired security assistance to Nigeria with training focused on compliance with international law. But the lawmakers said humanitarian workers have reported that Nigeria’s security forces "appear to have a limited understanding of humanitarian law and tools for effective engagement with local populations." The assistance provided by Washington so far has done little to quell the 14-year conflict between the Nigerian military and Islamist insurgents in the country’s northeast, and there are reports of weapons captured by the insurgents, the Congress members added. "Therefore, we believe continuing to move forward with the nearly $1 billion arms sale would be highly inappropriate, and we urge the Administration to rescind it," the lawmakers said in the letter. The White House did not immediately provide a comment. In April, the US State Department approved the weapons sale and other military support to Nigeria, the largest ever offered to the country, after lawmakers on both sides of the aisle had paused the deal over concerns about other rights abuses. The request for a review is the second to come from Congress in recent months. After the Reuters stories appeared in December, US Senator, Jim Risch, the top Republican on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, requested a review of US security assistance and co-operation programs in Nigeria and the potential use of sanctions for alleged abuses. "I look forward to hearing more about the (State) Department’s planned response to the serious and abhorrent allegations levied against a long-standing beneficiary of US security assistance and co-operation which, if deemed credible, have done irreparable harm to a generation of Nigerian citizens and to US credibility in the region," the Idaho senator said in the letter. The Reuters investigation found that since at least 2013, the Nigerian military has conducted a secret, systematic, and illegal abortion program in the country’s northeast, ending at least 10 000 pregnancies among women and girls. Many had been kidnapped and raped by Islamist militants. Resisters were beaten, held at gunpoint, or drugged into compliance, witnesses said.  --Reuters--