But opposition parties walked out of the counting process citing concerns of fraud. The tally of provisional electoral commission results showed Tinubu, of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) party, was ahead with 39.7% or 5.4 million of valid votes counted, against 32.2% or 4.4 million votes for Atiku Abubakar of the main opposition People's Democratic Party (PDP). Outsider Peter Obi of the smaller Labour Party was in third place on about 16.3% with about 2.2 million. The election has been fraught with logistical and technological difficulties that resulted in the failure, in many places, to upload results directly from each polling unit to its website, as the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had promised to do to guarantee transparency. There is no legal requirement to do so, but the failure of the electoral commission to live up to its promise meant results had to be collated manually inside ward and local government counting centres as in previous polls. "INEC's lack of efficient planning in critical stages and effective public communication reduced trust in the process," the European Union observer mission said in a statement. Commonwealth Observer Mission Chief, Thabo Mbeki, also criticised INEC for its failure to upload the results. By 19h00 CAT Monday, INEC had uploaded results from just 66 167 polling units out of a total of 178 846, its website showed. "We take full responsibility for the problems and regret the distress that they have caused the candidates, political parties and the electorate," the commission said in a statement. Opposition parties remained unsatisfied. "The electoral process has been rigged ... and we are completely disassociating ourselves from it," PDP Atiku's Campaign Manager Melaye Dino said at the INEC results centre in Abuja. Obi's Labour party was equally scathing. "We regret to say that we have lost confidence in the results being collated and announced," Akin Oshintokun, Director of Obi's campaign, told reporters. "We hereby call on the INEC to ... follow its own guidelines or completely cancel the entire election." The election was highly dependent on communications technology that may have seemed doomed to fail in a country with such poor internet coverage, and the failures open the way for legal challenges against the results. Obi defeated his ruling party challenger to win Nigeria's commercial hub of Lagos in a major upset in the poll which was marred by delays and complaints of irregularities. Around two-thirds of States in Africa's most populous country have yet to declare. But the win in Lagos State, with 582 454 votes against 572 606 for Tinubu, was a major boost for Obi, whose run challenged candidates from two long-established movements that have alternated in power since the end of army rule in 1999. Obi's campaign grabbed headlines with its use of social media and its focus on young people and urban voters fed up with widespread corruption and insecurity. To become President, a candidate needs to get more votes than any other candidate and also garner a quarter of the votes in at least 24 States. There have been reports of violence and intimidation, though not at the scale of previous elections. In northern Kano State, police said a group had attacked a campaign office for a smaller opposition party and set the building on fire, killing two people. Police said they had killed one of the attackers and arrested four suspects. --Reuters-- COLLATED RESULTS FROM 24/36 STATES.1. TINUBU ASIWAJU, APC 6,360,5342. ATIKU ABUBAKAR, PDP 4,801,6183. OBI PETER, LP 3,116,3674. RABIU KWANKWASO, NNPP 1,352,443#electionresults2023 #NigerianElections2023 pic.twitter.com/ok2yRQs5I1 Just do what you said you willThat's all we ask #INEC #electionresults2023 https://t.co/O18lZKAh0r If we fail to hold #APC and #INEC accountable for this brazen impunity, if we allow APC to get a hold of that office with this extreme disregard for law & order, we are DONE as a nation. Absolutely no one, not even the court will be able to check them. This can not be our future. #NigerianElections2023 Africa's most populous nation and largest democracy is still facing huge avoidable challenges.The inability of @inecnigeria to upload results to their server on time reminds our age long pleads for proper #infrastructural development. #NigeriaDecides2023 [TOP STORY] Tinubu speaks on defeat in Lagos, says ‘you win some, lose some’ | TheCable https://t.co/691VbliW7k#NigerianElections2023 #ElectionResult pic.twitter.com/NijmuqEc6L @officialABAT Tinubu represents status quo, his expected win maybe a reflection of the collective wisdom of Nigerians. Suppose the collective Nigerians' wisdom is replaced with Singaporeans, Koreans, Namibians or Canadians, who would leading candidates?#NigerianElections2023